Add quality requirements for AppCat (#16)
vshn/application-catalog-docs: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/reference/quality-portability.adoc

= Portability

== Services Run Independent of the Cloud They Are Provisioned
Source::
User

Stimulus::
Creates an AppCatalog Service

Environment::
AppCatalog enabled Kubernetes cluster

Artifact::
Kubectl or Service Broker API

Response::
The services are the same for all any AppCatalog enabled Kubernetes cluster zones.

Response measure::
The exception are resold Cloud services like RDS or CloudSQL.

Rationale::

> The AppCatalog service does not care on what k8s they are running.

Author: Maybe I should rephrase it a bit, instead of Kubernetes we could say cloud. 

> Postgresql on Cloudscale is entirely different than on AWS.

Do you refer to the difference between Postgres via helm on k8s and RDS on AWS?

> The AppCatalog service does not care on what k8s they are running.

Reviewer: IMHO this requirement targets how the service is provisioned. Ordering a Postgres instance on AWS should be the same as ordering it on cloudscale.ch.

> The AppCatalog service does not care on what k8s they are running.

Reviewer: I could very well imagine such a case, yes.

== Backups Are Independent of the Appcatalog Framework and Can Be Moved
Source::
User

Stimulus::
Restores an AppCatalog Service backup

Environment::
AppCatalog enabled Kubernetes cluster

Artifact::
K8up and restic

Response::
The backup is restored

Response measure::
We don't want to vendor lock the users into our services. The customer should be able to take their data away by themselves.

Rationale::

> The AppCatalog service does not care on what k8s they are running.

Author: Even if it's a black box, the customer can still request a restore of the data. This also implies that each service has a backup that can be restored.

> == Backups Are Independent of the Appcatalog Framework and Can Be Moved
> Source::
> User
> 
> Stimulus::
> Restores an AppCatalog Service backup
> 
> Environment::
> AppCatalog enabled Kubernetes cluster
> 
> Artifact::
> K8up and restic
> 
> Response::
> The backup is restored
> 
> Response measure::
> We don't want to vendor lock the users into our services. The customer should be able to take their data away by themselves.
> 
> Rationale::
> The AppCatalog service does not care on what k8s they are running.

Reviewer 2: Then I would rephrase the requirement for the time being
```suggestion
== Backups Can Be Exported
Source::
Service engineer

Stimulus::
Export an existing backup

Environment::
AppCatalog enabled Kubernetes cluster

Artifact::
K8up and restic

Response::
The backup is in a format that can be exported.

Response measure::
The backup data can be inspected and used to fully restore a service instance outside of AppCat with conventional tools.

Rationale::
Vendor lock-in users into the service instances or AppCat framework must be avoided.
The users should be able to take their data away before canceling their service instances.
```

> The AppCatalog service does not care on what k8s they are running.

Author: Thx for the suggestion.
